
<h1>NavIndoor: A Systematic Approach to Indoor Navigation</h1>
<p>Despite society’s growing reliance on GPS navigation, one flaw sticks out - it doesn’t work indoors. To remedy this problem, solutions to indoor navigation have consisted of expensive physical infrastructure that is infeasible to implement in most public spaces. As a result, while indoor navigation systems can support emergency evacuation plans and assist the visually impaired in traveling independently, they are far from widely accessible. My project proposal is a mobile smartphone application that provides directions to desired destinations within an indoor environment, similarly to GPS navigation systems. My approach consists of two steps: first, generating a virtual map of the indoor environment and second, navigating the indoor environment. In order to generate a virtual indoor map, I plan to utilize smartphone inertial sensors to measure distance between points of interest within an indoor environment. The application will then generate a node graph representing the indoor environment. After the virtual map has been generated the user can input a starting and ending point to navigate. From there, Dijkstra’s algorithm will be implemented to help the user navigate between those two points by calculating the shortest path on the node graph and displaying the path on the application. Combined with heading estimation techniques, the application is able to track the user’s position as they move along the path, providing directions on where to go.</p>
